.TH ERROR 3 2012-10-22 "IB 321" "Systemnahes Programmieren"
.SH NAME
makestrtab, freestrtab, storestr
\- store strings in memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <strtab.h>
.PP
.BI "Strtab *makestrtab(void);"
.PP
.BI "void freestrtab(Strtab *" tab );
.PP
.BI "const char *storestr(Strtab *restrict " tab ", const char *const restrict " str );
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This library provides a way to store strings in central place.
The strings are stored in lists of big character arrays,
from where they can be referenced and used.
.PP
A new store is allocated with
.BR makestrtab ,
which allocates memory for a
.B Strtab
and a buffer and returns a pointer to it.
.B freestrtab
frees the memory associated with
.I tab
struct and the list of string buffers.
.PP
New strings are inserted into a store by calling
.I storestr
with
.I tab
pointing to a valid
.B Strtab
and
.I str
to the string to store.
This string is copied into the buffer by
.BR strncpy (3),
and therefore is always NULL terminated.
.SH NOTES
The default buffer size is 4096 characters.
Longer strings are no problem,
extra memory is reserved and appended at the end of the list.
Currently, there is no way to remove strings from the store.
This may be seen as a bug,
but the intended usage is to provide a way to store strings for the whole
execution time of a program.
Aditionally, the structure is very simplistic,
there is also no smart algorithm to use the memory most efficient.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR calloc (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR strncpy (3)
.SH BUGS
There are currently no known Bugs.
If you find some, please report them to
.I <flo@snakeoilproductions.net>
or directly at
.IR https://github.com/flimberger/sysprog/issues .
